Yeah, grab
[Music]
that. I didn't get it. I got that.
What's that saying? Play stupid games,
wins stupid prizes. This is Bassa. He
loves a stupid game. I'm a stupid guy.
Today we've got a team session. So,
we've got uh Australia's strongest bench
presser. This is uh this is Big Vasa. Uh
otherwise known as Medium Vasa. Um he's
still kind of in between medium and big
at the moment. Uh he appeared on my
channel a few months ago. Um as well as
your mom's favorite channel. What's that
called again? Cold Strength. Cold
Strength. Uh so we've been training
together. Um do you want to just go and
have a look in the mirror? Go and check
out the man behind the mic and the
camera. All right. So, so usually
usually the guy holding the camera is
training with us as well, but he's got a
bicep tear uh that he's recovering from
and he's kind enough to record us doing
our session. So, Vas is going for a big
bench press today. Um, and this is kind
of like the start of his prep. So, check
out that t-shirt that says big dogs. Uh,
that's the main
uh that's the main competition for the
super heavyweights in Australia and
that's what VAS is working towards. Uh
we thought it was 16 weeks out but then
it turned out that it's how many weeks
out? 22 22 weeks out. So um Vasa in his
off season he followed a very strict
diet, lost a lot of weight, hence the
word medium vasa. Um now he weighs
10 kilos more than medium vasa but 10
kilos less than when he was in
competition. So he's 151 kg today. Um he
got to 140 kg u eating stuff like
baramundi and vegetables. Can you
imagine? Delicious. Uh, anyhow, so now
he's a little bit heavier than that. And
because it's um the startish of his
prep, we're going to see where he's at
with his bench press. And you know, our
baseline for if you're strong or not is
six plates aside. So, do you know what I
mean? Like, are you strong or not? So,
that means if he misses six plays, um,
sorry to
say, but he's not strong. But we'll see.
Maybe he's strong today. I don't know. I
could be speaking too soon. and we're
going to find out. Now, unfortunately,
we're at different parts of our
training. I'm coming back from leg
rehab. Um, and this is session number
two. So, I'm going to be doing light
squats. Very boring, but I'm still going
to hopefully give you some education
along the way. Um, and some more
deadlift work. So, while I'm doing that,
Vas is going to be benching. We're going
to go back and forth and, uh, you're
going to see us lift. Let's do it. All
right. So, this is I got my wrong shoes
on. I'm going to be So, this is my
flats. That's what I normally do. my low
bar squats in my flat sold shoe allows
me to sit back and use my hips more. Um,
but the elevated heel allows me to be
more upright and push my knees forward
to get more out of my quadriceps. So,
because I am uh rehabilitating my
quadriceps, the goal is to use the exact
muscle that you're trying to
rehabilitate, not avoid it. Right? So,
um my first session back into squats.
So, here's my update. I did my first
session and um I did 50 kg for a few
sets of
five. I know 50 kg is light, but I
didn't want to go too heavy. So, if you
remember or not, my advice for rehabbing
is don't go too hard too soon. You could
feel great during the session. Um but
then it's kind of like afterwards. So,
so big mistake that a lot of people make
is they feel great, they keep warming
up, they keep going heavier and heavier,
then they go to their next exercise and
they still feel great. and then they go
home that night and something hurts and
they made a big mistake, but they don't
know exactly what part of the session
hurt them. So my advice is always with
rehabilitation, gradually introduce one
exercise at a time. Go light. So light
that you walk out of the session feeling
like I really could have done more. So
that's the goal. And then you go home
and then you measure 24 hours later. Are
you okay? Uh and the answer for that was
I actually the next day I felt great. I
did three sets of five on 50 kg and
actually my quad the very next day felt
like a lot better. It's still not
perfect, but I think it's recovered a
lot. So my goal today is to work towards
100 kg for three sets of five.
All right, the first things I do is my
warm-ups. um leg press. So, look at the
way that I'm doing this. I've got two
different ways that I do a leg press.
One is quadriceps dominant where I bring
my feet down low and see how I let my
heels lift so that I can get my
hamstrings pressing against my calf. So,
I'm maximizing knee bend to hit quads.
You want to bend your knee as much as
possible. So, when you see people
bending up with their feet up higher, my
knees don't bend as much, but my hips
bend a lot. So, this is a a a better way
of lifting a heavier weight. And you're
using adductors, glutes, and then when I
bring my feet low and close, I'm hitting
quadriceps. So, this is one of my
favorite quad builders. And uh I'm going
to reintroduce this uh pretty soon to
build my quads back up. Um and but this
is always how I'm going to be warming up
my sessions. So, I'll probably do, if
you can see, 10 kg on each side. I'll do
another 10 on each side. One more set
and that's going to be my warm up for my
first squat.
The technique that Vasa uses is the same
one that I use as well. Uh, but
obviously, as you can see, he's a lot
bigger. Um, and he's a lot stronger. And
so, the techniques that we use, they're
the same cues, but they present slightly
I'm trying to Oh, that's I'm trying to
figure out what's happening in the
background.
Uh, so what we'll do again, so if I'm
boring you guys with the repetition, um,
I'm not going to apologize because
that's what I know that helps. A lot of
the times in my time, I always try and
figure out how can I refine the
technique to make it a little bit better
every single time. Uh, and that was one
of the biggest mistakes that I made is
trying to change it. Like once you learn
how to do it right, stick to it and do
that 10,000 times type of thing. So
that's what I want to reinforce with you
guys. If you've seen me do the technique
before, um, I'm going to show you again
and again and again. And that's how you
get better. So, while he's doing it on
the next set, uh, what's his next set?
He goes up in 40 kilo
jumps. So, I'm probably going to slow
that down. So, he's been going, you
know, one plate, two plate, three plate,
four plate, five plate. So, that was
just 180 that you saw. Next one's 220.
And then we'll slow it down. We'll do
240. And that'll tell us whether he
deserves to have 260 or not. But on his
next set, I'm going to go step by step
into his technique.
Um, and hopefully you learn with the
repetition. So, look at my hands. And I
have to repeat it every time. The cues
that I give is hold the bar as close as
your shoulder mobility allows. My
shoulder mobility, this is how I start
every session. Yesterday I did um a lot
of high volume benching. So I've got a
bit of stiffness in my shoulders as it
is, but that's where I'll always start.
So if you wonder why do you hold it
wide, it's because I can't get closer.
My shoulder
mobility is not amazing. But as I get
warmer and warmer and warmer, I bring my
hands in closer and closer. But that's
the same cues and it's what I always
say. The cues remain the same, but the
way they present from lifter to lifter
will be slightly different. But that's
uh the main goal. Hold the bar as close
as your shoulder mobility allows cuz
that allows you to pull your shoulders
your shoulder blades in and squeeze your
midback muscles to have a strong uh
torso when you squat. Cuz when you have
to load your spine and have a heavy
weight on your body, you don't want any
of this to be relaxed. It's not just a
leg exercise. We want a strong brace by,
you know, hands close, elbows back, and
down. And that's how I'm bracing my
upper body for my squat. So, don't try
and hold the bar wide cuz you think that
I'm advocating a wide grip uh squat
position. I'm only doing it like this
because my shoulders are so damn
tight. Now, here's the next thing. Um
something that I'm noticing
with upper back position and lower body
position, and it's it's actually very
technical cuz there's a few cues that I
that I use myself, and when a beginner
tries them, it stuffs up their
technique. And one of them is looking
straight ahead. So that's the technique
cue that I was given by my mentor Ernie
Liybridge Senior who is the father and
coach of Eric Lilybridge who can squat
480 kg in the 140 class, best in the
world. And he has the cue of look
straight ahead. He says the body follows
the eyes. And so I was kind of brought
up on that and I believe in that and all
my heavier squats I look straight ahead.
But the problem with head position is it
influences your entire spine position.
And I noticed when I teach beginners
look straight ahead, what they do is
with the head that's kind of like it's
not really up, but it kind of is as
well. So when they look up, they arch
their tail as well. And they end up with
this arch tail and then they go into a
buttwink at the bottom
position. Right? So this is where I'm
now starting to learn. When I'm working
with a beginner, I'm teaching them look
down. Look down so that they can tuck
their pelvis. Right? See that
association? It's a very strange thing.
Um, but the way that you move your head
will affect your tail. So, if you're
looking straight ahead and you're
arching back, try this. Look down and
think about the cue piss up a wall,
right? So, a strange cue, but that's
called posterior pelvic
tilt. What that does is going to allow
So, watch this. When I try and hit depth
with my tail arched, I I I go into
buttwink. Whereas when I piss up a wall
and brace my core, so so bracing the
core like you're going to get punched in
the belly, it allows me to get a greater
depth without going into
buttwink as opposed to arch the tail and
then when I try and hit
depth, go into buttwink. Can you see
that? So therefore, back to those cues.
Eye position, the body follows the eyes.
Absolutely right. And at the highest
level, that's pretty much my
recommendation. What do I mean by
highest level? There's people out there
squatting triple and even quadruple body
weight, which is absolute insanity. And
it's not just about posture. It's
largely about balancing this heavy
barbell that's flapping around. Cuz when
it's that heavy, the barbell bends and
whips and shakes. So, you've got to be
able to stabilize this really, really
heavy thing so it's in line with your
midoot from start to finish. And looking
straight ahead assists with balance.
However, in your early days when you're
trying to figure out how to move and do
all those things, you do not want this
arch. That's not the best way of doing
it. You want neutral. So, I'm now
teaching people. So, get this for a
queue, which you'll pretty much never
hear. Chest down. You hear people say
chest up. I'm So, people go chest up and
it forces them to arch and then kink
their tail into buttwink. So, their goal
is I mean, they think that their goal is
trying to be upright. Upright. Upright.
Yeah, kind of. if I want you upright,
but understand there is always going to
be some forward torso lean when you
squat, especially if you to do a low bar
squat. The torso will lean forward and
that's totally fine. You lean forward so
that you can use your strong hips. So
nowadays, if this is you, try that cue.
Look down and allow your chest to drop.
Sounds weird. Allow your torso to tip
forward. There will be forward torso
lean. That's how we recruit our hips.
But then
eventually the goal is to think about
balance and that's when you can change
your eye position. But these cues that I
give, understand for everyone there
might be some of those differences and
those are the considerations that you
need to be making. Oh, he was waiting
for Australia's he was waiting for me to
introduce Australia's best bench press.
That's you brother. That's you,
brother. All right. Check this. Check
this. Right. So he starts back here.
It's the same thing. I always like to
start back so that we can look where his
feet are. His feet are kind of back. So
the idea of starting back here so we can
set our feet behind our hips, right? So
then he slides into
position. He's on the balls of his feet
and he's pushing his heels downwards.
They won't touch the ground, but there's
that direction. Pulling his shoulders
back and down. Takes a big
breath. One rep.
Good.
Didn't want to miss out on that. Okay,
so that's me talking really quick. So,
feet back, heels down, and shoulders
back and down, right? And to be honest
with you, that's pretty much the the
main points that you want to think
about. Everything else happens naturally
if you're doing that. Feet back and
heels
down. That starts the arch in your low
back, right? So, feet back and heels
down and then the shoulders back and
down continues the arch in the upper
back. So, it's like when you're arching
the back, you want a symmetrical curve
from your tail to your the top of your
neck or the base of your skull, right?
You want it to be symmetrical. If you've
just got the feet back and down thing
and you're just pushing, however, you'll
get a big arch in your lower back and
then it'll be flat in the upper back and
you're not squeezing your shoulder
blades together and all that does is
causes a pain in the back in the lower
back. You don't want that. So, you want
a symmetrical curve. Feet back, heels
down, shoulders back and down. If you
just master those two combined with
breath hold, if you com if you master
that, feet back, heels down, shoulders
back and down, hold your breath, and
then that's pretty much the main thing.
And then all you need to do is push the
heavy thing off your chest. If you
master those three points, feet back,
heels down, shoulders back and down,
hold your
breath. That's it. And then push. Next
up,
240. Faster just asked me how it moved.
And I got to say it moved pretty slowly,
right? So like this is the thing. When
you're strong like that, you're not
strong every day. And maybe you are
strong, but you need to turn it on
sometimes. So it's like I look at that
and I'm like, okay, like it's strong
enough to do 240. But now what I would
like to do is probably not go through
the technique thing because this is a
weight where you need to focus, right?
So I'm not going to talk about the
technique. I'm going to get him to focus
and I want him to move 240 to get 260.
That 240 needs to move the same way that
220 just moved. If it doesn't, we're
going to have a bit of a plan B. Um, but
we'll see. We'll
see. Nice and comfortable. Um, I think
it does feel better than what it did uh
when I did 50 kg. Uh what's today?
Saturday. And I did 50 kg on Wednesday.
Wednesday. So I've had two days off.
Um and it's feeling so much better in
those those days. Now, here's the thing
with injury rehab. Um and there's a bit
of research with this, and I'm not going
to quote the research cuz I don't know
it that well, but I know um that a lot
of the physiotherapists I talk about
talk about exactly this. Get started
with your rehab as soon as possible. the
outcome for um for you know complete
rehabilitation is a lot quicker when you
start it quicker, right? So if all you
do is rest, of course you get better.
It's like if you cut yourself, you do
nothing, it'll heal eventually, right?
That's kind of just what happens. So you
know, my quad will heal eventually, but
it will heal a lot faster when I start,
you know, putting as much blood through
it as possible through resistance
training. So, that's um something that I
recommend and that I did straight away
was, you know, high rep sets on no
weight. Literally like the empty leg
press. I was doing sets of 50 2 days
later. And I think that's probably why
it's feeling so great. Um is because I
didn't just sit there and rest it. Now,
I'm not saying get up and train heavy
straight away. And I'm not saying train
through pain. Okay? So that's the
biggest thing is I don't want to like
it's you know I'm not forcing you to do
something that hurts you. You get to
that point of slight discomfort. Uh and
make sure So here's a way of thinking
about it. Give the pain a score out of
10, right? Let's just call it a five out
of 10. If it turns into a 6 out of 10,
you
stop. Okay? But if it stays like you
keep on going. If it stays at kind of
like that five out of 10 or whatever the
pain was when you started the session,
um the pain's already there. It's not
making it worse. Keep it at that level.
So that's that's where I'm at right now.
The pain while I'm moving, it's probably
about a 3 out of 10. Uh last Wednesday
was about a 5 out of 10. So it's feeling
way better. Let's do it, brother. Come
on. Let's go, bro. Come on. Let's go.
Let's go, brother. Come
on. All
right. Right. Right.
What do you think, brother? Yeah, he
just he just kind of like just waits for
me to call the shots. I think that was
not good enough for a 260. Damn it. I
think it was good enough for a
250, but at the same time, I don't want
250, right? So, there's no point making
him max out. The idea of doing a heavy
single is it doesn't make you stronger.
It's a great way of testing your
strength, but not a great way of
building your strength. So, if a 260 was
there, it would be like, "Yeah, let's
let's go for it." I think uh 260 looks
like it's it's coming up comfortably,
but it's also a high risk. So, right
now, um can 260 happen? I'd say it's
50/50 chance, and it's not worth going
for a 5050 chance um of a one rep max
right now. It's just not worth it. He's
22 weeks out. So, I would love to say
this, that's your submax for today. He's
very
upset cuz he always likes it when I say,
"Hell yeah, let's go for a big max." Um,
but what I would like to do instead is
be smarter about it and let's play the
long game. He's got 22 weeks to go. Um,
I know at the start of the session we
said 260 is going to tell us if he's
strong or
not. So, because 260 didn't happen, he's
not strong. But, uh, the good news is
we've got 22 weeks to get strong. So, I
would say a nice start point, I know
last week we did sets of eight on 180
kg. So, I think a nice start point would
be to do a few sets of five on 200 kg,
which was the planned back down work.
So, that's what we're going to
do. Okay.
Um, it feels easy. It's easy on my back.
all that stuff. But I do feel it here.
I'm not feeling it worse than what it
was the other day. And I do think I
deserve to add a little bit of weight.
So, I'm going to go for 80 kg next. My
plan was 100 today. Um, but if 80
kg hurts, which it could, I'm going to
keep it at 80 and do sets of five there.
[Music]
Yeah, feels easy. Feels really
comfortable. It's nice to sit in that
position, but I got to be honest with
you, I can feel it on my quadricep. Not
so bad that it's damaging, but not good
enough to allow me to go heavier,
unfortunately. So, 80 kg it is. That's
my working weight. I'm going to do two
more sets of five. Um, and that's my
squats before I go into my
deadlifts. So, this is a life lesson.
So, when we train, especially in the
early days, you don't max out. You don't
go to fail. Right? So, this is Vasa.
He's like, "Why only five? Is it because
you don't think I can?" No, that's not
why. The problem is if you go as hard as
you can right now, it leaves it. So, um,
one increases risk of failing reps. If
you're failing reps today, what do we do
next week? How do we progress from so
let's just say he does like sets of a
set of eight which I think he probably
could do and then that's his last rep.
What do we do next week? Do we
go 205 kg for sets of eight and 210?
It's not enough. I'd rather he goes
fives on 200 and then next week fives on
210 and then next week fives on
220. Okay. Or he goes eights to fail on
200 and then what do we do next week?
205 for eight and then 210 for eight.
Like maybe maybe I don't know. Anyway, I
prefer don't go to fail. Walk out of the
session knowing I could have done more
and then next week we do more. How does
that sound, Vasa? Yeah. Yeah. No, he's
not even happy. He's not even happy.
He's never never happy with me. That's
the best. Never never happy with me. All
right, let's go. Vasa, you better not
fail on five now. Imagine. Imagine that.
All right, let's go. Now you want. Let's
go. Let's go. Let's
go. See what he does. See what he does.
Hey, he's trying to He's trying to fight
me for the bar. I would have got it. I
know you would have got it. He's trying
to fight me for the bar so he can do
more reps. He does it every
time. And then And then look at that.
Then I pulled it in and it went here
because he's trying to do another rep.
And then if that landed on his face, I
just walk off. That would have been my
fault. Yeah, I just walk it off. I know.
He would have just I know it's happened
before except he bends with the
barbells. That's what I was getting to.
If it landed on his face, he'd be a new
barbell. Set number two. And I'm trying
secret weapon. So check this out. Uh
this is one of those soft uh
weightlifting knee bandages. Uh, and
I've wrapped it firmly around my quad to
see how that feels. So, that was advice
from the cameraman. Um, which I quite
like. So, that's something that I do um
recommend if you got like a minor tear
is to wrap it and it holds it in place,
a compression bandage rather than ice
and all those things. U, but then when
he said to me, why don't you try and
wrap it to see how it feels when you do
the lift, I thought, sounds logical and
I think it could
um it won't hurt it, that's for sure.
Let's see how it feels.
felt a lot more
comfortable. Felt a lot more
comfortable. Um, I was still I could go
heavier. That definitely felt less
painful than the set before. Um, which I
like. And I'm going to keep it on there.
And I'm going to stick to 180. Sorry,
[__]
180. I'm going to stick to 80 kg. 80 kg
squats. Where's my fist bump? Thank you,
bro. Thank you, bro. All right, one more
set. These reps are so good. These are
um
weightlifting knee wraps, and I love it.
It's kind of like when you use them as
knee wraps, it's equivalent to a knee
sleeve. Um, but it's just like you can
have your shoes on and take it off in
and out of sets. So, I can't take my
knee wraps off in between sets. Okay.
So, that's um exactly like that's where
the pain is. So, it's exactly over the
top of it. Uh, let's see.
Yeah, it feels the same. It felt more
comfortable with the wrap. Um, it didn't
feel too different to the set before
because the set before was quite Yeah.
Thank you. Thank
you. The set before was kind of tight.
Not this tight. Um, anyway, that's done.
Whatever. 80 kg. So, last session was
50. This one's 80. Next session
hopefully I'll go to a little bit
heavier. So, what's a little bit heavier
than that? maybe 100. Uh, next up, stiff
leg stifflegged deadlifts.
Yeah, grab
[Music]
that. I nearly had it. I nearly got it.
That's you. What's that saying? Play
stupid games, wins stupid prizes. This
is Bassa. He loves a stupid game. I'm a
stupid guy.
You're so fast.
I was thinking, how am I going to punish
this guy if he does that again? Should I
sit on his face? That'll be unpleasant
for him. It'll be fine for me. I'll just
hit that.
That's the stupid prize. That's the
stupid prize. How's that? Yeah. 3x5. Uh
so that's uh that's good intro week uh
for the start of his program. Now we've
got a nice base to build off to go
heavier next week. Stay tuned for that.
Uh but before next week, we're going to
do accessory exercises. So get this for
a rule. First exercise of the day is
highest relevance to achieving your
goal. Powerlifter, his main goal, bench
press. Secondary exercise of the day is
to target the joint angles, ranges of
motion or muscles that you've neglected
in the main movement. So what does that
mean? So it means you've just done
pronated grip. So that's holding a
barbell pronated. That's neutral. That's
supernated. You've done pronated grip,
horizontal push. Don't do more
horizontal push with dumbbells in that
same grip. We make a slight change. So
that's where we hit the variation. So
some people might think, but I only want
to be good at the horizontal push. Why
not do more of that? I'll tell you why
not do more of that because we've done
plenty of that now. So if you think you
need to do more of the same thing, you
didn't do it the first time well enough.
Right? So he's done it well enough. So
now we want to target a different joint
angle. So, I like to pair this with a
shoulder press with a dumbbell. Uh,
again, because we've got dumbbells,
we've got the the luxury of being able
to change our grip position. So, I want
him to do a different grip to pronated.
So, we go more neutral grip and we go
vertical push on the next one. So,
that's what he's going to be doing.
Seated dumbbell shoulder press. Uh, and
we'll probably do two sets of that. So,
three sets of five is is pretty good for
Vaset. It's actually on the high end.
This is another discussion we have. Vasa
said, "Should I just do five sets of
five?" um at his level like he's very
strong. I don't think he needs to do
five sets of five. A lot of people think
5x5 is a basic strength program and it
is but he's not basic. He's elite. He's
very strong and sometimes that's too
much volume. So for Vasa I'd say 3x5 is
a volume program. And then the next
exercise we'll do two sets of eight. A
lot of people think that's also quite
minimal. It's like well he'll probably
be doing 55 or 60 kg for two sets of
eight. That's a lot. And that'll be all
of his pressing. That's five sets of
pushing in one day. Um, that's a really
big session that he'll need a few days
to recover from. So, that's what's up
next. All right. So, we've just
discussed the weights with Vasa. I said,
um, 5560. And he said, I'd like to try
80. Okay. And I thought, that's awesome.
Like, we we probably could, but I'm
going to tell you something. Um, I've
done 80 for four. Turn around. Show him.
Show him. Show him. Show him.
How was he? It was exactly what we were
going to be doing.
So, it
was here and I can get a video to prove
it. I did 80 for four and I'm just a
little guy. So, we'll see. Uh, if you
can't do it, we know what that means.
Yeah. Let's
go. That was last warm up. 160 I'll do
200. So last session I did 180 kilograms
for two sets of eight as the back down
work and it was quite easy. Uh so today
I thought I'll do 200 for 2x8 as my back
down work. The next thing you're not
going to notice is my grip. I'm going to
be using my bare hands. A lot of the
times when I recommend high rep like
RDL's I say just use straps. You don't
want your hands to be the limiting
factor of you building back strength.
However, as a powerlifter, that's
something that I have struggled with is
grip strength when we get heavier and
heavier. So, uh that's also, you know,
another tactic is to never use straps uh
to make sure that you don't let go of
the bar when it actually counts. So,
right now, while I can't go really
really heavy on my squats, um these are
the opportunities that I get to work on
other things. So, I'll be going two sets
of eight with bare hands. Um and that's
gradually building my grip as well. So,
that was the last warm-up set. Next set
200 kg.
Ah, see the grip thing. I was trying to
do it like just on the tips. Um, and
then on what was that? Rep six. Just
started going no. I thought I'd be able
to do it. Anyway, uh, that was quite
comfortable. I mean, that was quite
comfortable. Good one. High five. High
five. High five.
One more only. Good. Yep, that'll
do. Next up, 80 kg. If you can't do
four, uh, he's not a bad person. He's
just not as strong as me. He's a He's a
bad person. We all know he's a bad
person. You get four less. Well, do you
want to be equal to me? Who's 40 40
kilos lighter? That would be the truth.
Better do better. I think he needs to.
He's not better. He's worse. Maybe not
perfect last.
When did you do You don't want to be
loser. When did you do that? Years ago.
I got a video. Were you strong as I
could be or? Yeah, bro. I was at 240
bench.
When I was at 240 bench, I could bench I
could dumbbell press 80 kg before.
You did that during your peak? Uh, or
after the comp? It it wasn't leading up
to the comp. It was It was kind of like
around the time like probably about 6
weeks around.
Oh, yeah. I always did shoulder press. I
always include dumbbell shoulder press
in my program for balance, man. So, see
that? See that balance, right? So, it's
like I don't train like a typical
powerlifter. Um, of course I do the
powerlifting movements, but I like to
have strength on all angles as well
because we're held back by our weakest
links, right? As the saying goes. So, I
quite often for my powerliffters do a
lot of overhead pressing just like for
my strong man who have competition
overhead, I'll still prescribe a lot of
horizontal pressing so they have
balance, strength in all angles. Uh but
then as you get closer to competition,
then you take out all those accessories
and then you focus on specificity.
All right. So, I was playing around with
grip positions and I tried to do kind of
like in here, so below the calluses for
the first set cuz I thought that'll be a
great way of just relaxing my hand. And
then it slipped on rep five. That was
the first set. So then I thought that's
not the right way. So I've got to get it
here. And what happened? It slipped on
rep five. So I guess the conclusion is
they're both
weak. But either way, I didn't use I
didn't use chalk. Um so next time I will
use chalk, but that's a two by 2x8 for
me. Apart from grip
comfortable. Next up, next up V is going
to do 80 kg dumbbell press for maybe
four or more or got none at all. That 70
looked pretty tough. Cross that bridge
when we get there. Yeah, we will. Let's
get there, brother.
Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Come
on. Two. [__] Come on. Come on. Come
on. Come on. Come on. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Yes. Yes. Go. [__] you.
Yeah. What can I What can I say?
At least At least At least you tried.
Yeah. At least you tried. Yeah. At least
you tried. Yeah. That was a good effort.
That was a good effort.
Yeah.
You've got, you know, you know what I
figured out was a really good insult.
You've got potential. You got some
potential. It means you're not there,
brother. You know what I mean? Like
that's the translation. Now, you got
potential, bro. You know, keep keep at
it. He's new. He's new. Yeah. Keep keep
at it, bro. Okay. Yeah. So,
yeah.
We'll get there. What is it? What is it?
Back in your day, you would have done
more.
When I When I was your age, when when I
was your age? Yeah, I know. That is a
good comeback. That was actually quite
good. That's switched on. Anyway, um so
that's the end of the session. I mean,
he's still going to do accessories,
right? Cuz we don't just finish on two
reps of anything. But you honestly
better off doing none. Yeah, that was a
zero set. Um anyhow, so he's going to do
more reps of the same thing and we're
going to be back next week. I hope you
enjoyed that session. Actually, um
before next week, we've got Vasa's
squats. So hopefully over the next
coming weeks, well when I say next
coming weeks, the next 22 weeks, we're
going to see a lot more of these guys.
Uh because VAS is in prep for big dogs
invite, by the way. 22 weeks out. Did
you get an invite? Can you imagine if
Ree steps back on the platform at big
dogs? We're gonna be trying to twist his
arm uh to get him back there. What do
you reckon? Vasa Vasa and Reese head to
head. Oh, what's your best total?
10:305,50,
okay, see that?
1035,50. Well, let's see what happens in
22 weeks. Um, if they both step up on
stage, that'll be a lovely little
battle. Um, go for 800. If not, I bet
you Vas will be going for 1052.5
and not a kilogram more. Yeah, we'll
see. Well, that's right. Um, Reys has
torn. So, bit of context here. Reese
took up uh arm wrestling. Stupid game.
Stupid brother and uh show us your
little scar there. So, he's got bicep
has torn. He's how many weeks into 14
weeks uh into rehab. And he bench
pressed 170 kg yesterday. Um, so little
bit of lessons of if you tear your
bicep, it's taken him 40, it'll only
take you 14 weeks to get back to 170 kg.
Is that right? Um, anyway, thanks for
joining if you did join and I'll see you
guys next
time. Good one. Thank you. Thank you.